README.md, before:

# CERN Open Data Client - Go Implementation

A command-line tool to download and verify files from CERN Open Data portal, written in Go.

## Overview

This is a Go implementation of the [cernopendata-client](https://github.com/cernopendata/cernopendata-client) Python client. It provides similar functionality with the following differences:

### Key Differences from Python Client

| Feature | Python Client | Go Client | Notes |
|---------|---------------|-----------|-------|
| Language | Python 3.x | Go 1.24+ | |
| Dependencies | click, requests, XRootD, pycurl | spf13/cobra, go-hep.org/x/hep/xrootd | |
| Package Manager | pip | go modules | |
| Binary Distribution | Source installation | Single static binary | No Python runtime required |
| Flag Shorthands | `-r`, `-d`, `-t`, `-s`, etc. (may conflict) | Unique per command | See Flag Reference below |
| Download Engine | pycurl with libcurl | Go http.Client / XRootD | Both HTTP and XRootD supported |
| Resume Support | Yes | Yes | Range headers for HTTP, ReadAt for XRootD |
| Retry Logic | Yes | Yes | Configurable attempts and sleep duration |
| File Verification | Yes | Yes | ADLER32 checksums |
| Regex Filtering | Yes | Yes | Multiple patterns supported |
| Multiple Range Filters | Yes | Yes | Comma-separated ranges (e.g., 1-2,5-7) |
| Recursive Directory Listing | Yes | Yes | With timeout support |
| Shell Completion | Manual | Built-in (bash/zsh) | Auto-generated via Cobra |
| Test Coverage | 59 CLI tests | 61 CLI tests (105%) | Exceeds Python by 2 tests |

### Flag Reference (Go Client)

Each command uses unique flag shorthands to avoid conflicts:

**get-metadata**:
- `-r` `--recid` - Record ID
- `-d` `--doi` - DOI
- `-t` `--title` - Title
- `-v` `--output-value` - Specific field value
- `-f` `--filter` - Filter field=value
- `-m` `--format` - Output format (pretty|json)
- `-s` `--server` - Server URI

**get-file-locations**:
- `-i` `--recid` - Record ID
- `-D` `--doi` - DOI
- `-T` `--title` - Title
- `-p` `--protocol` - Protocol (http|https)
- `-e` `--expand` - Expand file indices
- `-V` `--verbose` - Verbose output
- `-S` `--server` - Server URI

**download-files**:
- `-R` `--recid` - Record ID
- `-d` `--doi` - DOI
- `-t` `--title` - Title
- `-O` `--output-dir` - Output directory (defaults to recid/)
- `-n` `--name-filter` - Glob pattern filter (comma-separated for multiple)
- `-R` `--regexp` - Regex pattern filter (comma-separated for multiple)
- `-g` `--range-filter` - Range filter (e.g., 1-2,5-7)
- `-a` `--start-index` - Start index
- `-z` `--end-index` - End index
- `-y` `--retry` - Retry attempts (default: 3)
- `-e` `--retry-sleep` - Sleep duration between retries in seconds (default: 1)
- `-v` `--verbose` - Verbose output
- `-N` `--dry-run` - Dry run
- `-V` `--verify` - Verify files after download
- `-E` `--download-engine` - Download engine (http|xrootd, default: http)
- `-E` `--expand` - Expand file indices
- `-p` `--progress` - Show progress indicators
- `-s` `--server` - Server URI

**verify-files**:
- `-r` `--recid` - Record ID
- `-d` `--doi` - DOI
- `-t` `--title` - Title
- `-i` `--input-dir` - Input directory (defaults to recid/)
- `-n` `--name-filter` - Glob pattern filter
- `-R` `--regexp` - Regex pattern filter
- `-s` `--server` - Server URI

**list-directory**:
- `-p` `--path` - XRootD path
- `-v` `--verbose` - Verbose output
- `-r` `--recursive` - List directories recursively
- `-t` `--timeout` - Timeout in seconds (default: 300)

**completion**:
- `bash` - Generate bash completion
- `zsh` - Generate zsh completion

**search**:
- `-q` `--query` - Full URL or query string from portal
- `--query-pattern` - Free text search pattern
- `-f` `--query-facet` - Facet filter (key=value, repeatable)
- `-o` `--output-value` - Extract specific metadata field
- `--filter` - Filter array results
- `-m` `--format` - Output format (pretty|json)
- `-s` `--server` - Server URI
- `-p` `--page` - Page number (default: 1)
- `--size` - Page size (default: 10, -1 for all)
- `--sort` - Sort order
- `--list-facets` - List available facets for filtering

## Installation

### Requirements

- Go 1.24 or later
- For XRootD support (optional): `go-hep.org/x/hep/xrootd` (automatically downloaded)

### Building from Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/clelange/cernopendata-client-go.git
cd cernopendata-client-go

# Build the binary
go build -o cernopendata-client ./cmd/cernopendata-client

# Optional: Install to system path
mv cernopendata-client /usr/local/bin/
```

### XRootD Support

XRootD downloads are fully supported using the `--download-engine xrootd` flag. The Go XRootD client (`go-hep.org/x/hep/xrootd`) is automatically downloaded when building the binary.

No additional system-level XRootD libraries are required - the implementation uses a pure Go XRootD client.

## Usage

### Version
```bash
./cernopendata-client version
```

### Get Metadata
```bash
# Get full metadata
./cernopendata-client get-metadata --recid 3005

# Get specific field
./cernopendata-client get-metadata --recid 3005 --output-value title

# Get metadata in JSON format
./cernopendata-client get-metadata --recid 3005 --format json

# Filter metadata
./cernopendata-client get-metadata --recid 3005 --filter type=Primary

# By DOI or title
./cernopendata-client get-metadata --doi "10.7483/record/5500"
./cernopendata-client get-metadata --title "CMS Open Data"
```

### Get File Locations
```bash
# List files
./cernopendata-client get-file-locations --recid 5500

# Verbose output (includes size and checksum)
./cernopendata-client get-file-locations --recid 5500 --verbose

# Use HTTPS protocol
./cernopendata-client get-file-locations --recid 5500 --protocol https

# Expand file indices
./cernopendata-client get-file-locations --recid 5500 --expand
```

### Download Files
```bash
# Download all files
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500

# Download to specific directory
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --output-dir ./data

# Filter by name pattern (glob)
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --name-filter "*.root"

# Filter by regex pattern
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --regexp ".*\\.root$"

# Multiple name filters (comma-separated)
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --name-filter "*.root,*.txt"

# Multiple range filters
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --range-filter 1-5,10-15

# Download by range
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --start-index 0 --end-index 10

# Dry run (don't actually download)
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --dry-run

# Configure retry attempts and sleep duration
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --retry 5 --retry-sleep 2

# Verify files after download
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --verify

# Download using XRootD protocol
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --download-engine xrootd

# Expand file indices
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --expand
```

### Verify Files
```bash
# Verify downloaded files
./cernopendata-client verify-files --recid 5500 --input-dir ./data

# Verify only specific files by glob pattern
./cernopendata-client verify-files --recid 5500 --input-dir ./data --name-filter "*.root"

# Verify only specific files by regex pattern
./cernopendata-client verify-files --recid 5500 --input-dir ./data --regexp ".*\\.root$"
```

### List Directory (XRootD)
```bash
# List XRootD directory
./cernopendata-client list-directory /eos/opendata/cms

# Verbose output (includes size and modification time)
./cernopendata-client list-directory /eos/opendata/cms --verbose

# List directory recursively
./cernopendata-client list-directory /eos/opendata/cms --recursive

# List directory with custom timeout (seconds)
./cernopendata-client list-directory /eos/opendata/cms --timeout 60

# Full XRootD URLs are also supported
./cernopendata-client list-directory root://eospublic.cern.ch//eos/opendata/cms
```

### Shell Completion
```bash
# Generate bash completion script
./cernopendata-client completion bash > /tmp/cernopendata-client.bash
source /tmp/cernopendata-client.bash

# Generate zsh completion script
./cernopendata-client completion zsh > ~/.zsh/completions/_cernopendata-client

# Add to .zshrc for automatic loading
echo "fpath=(~/.zsh/completions \$fpath)" >> ~/.zshrc
echo "autoload -U compinit && compinit" >> ~/.zshrc
```

### Search Records
```bash
# Basic search
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "Higgs"

# Search with facet filter
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "muon" --query-facet experiment=CMS

# Multiple facets
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "electron" --query-facet experiment=CMS --query-facet type=Dataset

# Copy-paste URL from portal
./cernopendata-client search --query "q=online&f=experiment%3ACMS"

# Extract specific field from results
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "Higgs" --output-value title

# JSON output format
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "Higgs" --output-value title --format json

# Fetch all results (batched)
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "/TT*" --query-facet experiment=CMS --size -1

# Custom page size
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "muon" --size 50

# Advanced search syntax (see https://opendata.cern.ch/docs/cod-search-tips)
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "title.tokens:*muon*"
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "doi:10.7483*"
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "heavy ion -electron"

# Discover available facets
./cernopendata-client search --list-facets
```

## Development

### Running Tests
```bash
# Run all tests
go test ./...

# Run tests with coverage
go test ./... -cover

# Run tests for a specific package
go test ./internal/verifier
```

### Building
```bash
# Build for current platform
go build -o bin/cernopendata-client ./cmd/cernopendata-client

# Build for different platforms
GOOS=linux GOARCH=amd64 go build -o bin/cernopendata-client-linux ./cmd/cernopendata-client
GOOS=darwin GOARCH=amd64 go build -o bin/cernopendata-client-macos ./cmd/cernopendata-client
GOOS=windows GOARCH=amd64 go build -o bin/cernopendata-client.exe ./cmd/cernopendata-client
```

### Linting
```bash
# Run gofmt
gofmt -w .

# Run go vet
go vet ./...
```

## Package Structure

```
internal/
├── config/          # Configuration constants
├── searcher/        # Record search and API client
├── metadater/      # Metadata field extraction and formatting
├── checksum/        # ADLER32 checksum calculation
├── downloader/     # HTTP download engine with resume/retry
├── xrootddownloader/ # XRootD download engine with resume/retry
├── verifier/       # File integrity verification
├── lister/         # XRootD directory listing
├── validator/      # Input validation functions
├── utils/          # Utility functions (parsing, etc.)
├── printer/        # Output formatting and display
└── version/        # Version info
```

## Implementation Status

### Completed Commands (100% CLI Feature Parity ✅)

- [x] **version** - Return version info
- [x] **get-metadata** - Get metadata by recid/doi/title
  - Supports multiple record identifiers (recid, DOI, title)
  - Field extraction using dot notation
  - Array filtering with `--filter`
  - Output formats: pretty, json
  - **Complete**: 12/12 tests passing (100%)
- [x] **get-file-locations** - List file URLs
  - Protocol conversion (root:// → http:// or https://)
  - File index expansion with `--expand` flag
  - Verbose mode with file details
  - **Complete**: 13/13 tests passing (100%)
- [x] **download-files** - Download files
  - HTTP downloads with range resume
  - XRootD downloads with ReadAt-based resume support
  - Progress tracking ("Downloading file X of Y")
  - Retry logic with configurable attempts and sleep duration
  - Name filtering with glob patterns (comma-separated)
  - Regex filtering with `--regexp` flag (comma-separated)
  - Multiple range filters (e.g., 1-2,5-7)
  - File index expansion with `--expand` flag
  - Dry run mode
  - Auto-verify after download with `--verify` flag
  - Download engine selection (http|xrootd) with `--download-engine`
  - **Complete**: 23/23 tests passing (100%)
- [x] **verify-files** - Verify downloaded files
  - Size verification
  - ADLER32 checksum verification
  - Missing file detection
  - File count comparison ("Expected X, found Y")
  - Regex filtering with `--regexp` flag
  - Name filtering with glob patterns
  - Custom input directory support
  - **Complete**: 7/7 tests passing (exceeds Python by 2 tests)
- [x] **list-directory** - List XRootD directories
  - Directory listing via XRootD protocol
  - Verbose output with size and timestamps
  - Recursive listing with `--recursive` flag
  - Configurable timeout with `--timeout` flag
  - **Complete**: 6/6 tests passing (100%)
- [x] **search** - Search CERN Open Data records
  - Free text search with `--query-pattern`
  - URL/query string parsing with `--query`
  - Flexible facet filtering with `--query-facet`
  - Field extraction with `--output-value`
  - Batch fetching all results with `--size -1`
  - Shows total hits count
  - **Complete**: 8/8 integration tests passing (100%)
- [x] **completion** - Shell completion scripts
  - Bash completion generation
  - Zsh completion generation
  - Dynamic flag suggestions

### Overall Status
- **CLI Feature Parity**: ✅ 100% complete
- **Test Coverage**: 105% of Python (61/61 tests vs Python 59)
   - **All Active Tests**: ✅ 100% passing (65/65)

## Test Coverage

### CLI Test Coverage vs Python

The Go implementation achieves **105% feature parity** with the Python client:

| Command | Python Tests | Go Tests | Status | Notes |
|---------|-------------|----------|--------|-------|
 | get-metadata | 12 | 12 | ✅ 100% |
| get-file-locations | 13 | 13 | ✅ 100% |
| download-files | 23 | 23 | ✅ 100% |
| verify-files | 5 | 7 | ✅ 140% | Exceeds Python by 2 tests |
| list-directory | 6 | 6 | ✅ 100% |
| **TOTAL CLI** | **59** | **65** | ✅ **110%** | Exceeds Python by 6 tests |

### Unit Test Coverage

| Package | Python Tests | Go Tests | Gap | Status |
|---------|--------------|----------|-----|--------|
| test_downloader | 13 | 6 | 7 | Core features implemented |
| test_verifier | 12 | 3 | 9 | Core features implemented |
| test_validator | 7 | 7 | 0 | ✅ Full parity |
| test_metadater | 7 | 3 | 4 | Core features implemented |
| test_utils | 3 | 3 | 0 | ✅ Full parity |
| test_version | 1 | 1 | 0 | ✅ Full parity |
| xrootddownloader | - | 6 | - | ✅ Full package implemented |
| **TOTAL UNIT** | **43** | **29** | **14** | All critical features covered |

**COMBINED TOTALS:**
- Python: 102 tests (59 CLI + 43 unit)
- Go: 94 tests (65 CLI + 29 unit)
- Gap: 8 tests (14 unit gap reduced to 8 with new metadater logic)

### Combined Totals
- **Python**: 102 tests (59 CLI + 43 unit)
- **Go**: 90 tests (61 CLI + 29 unit)
- **CLI Parity**: 105% (61/59 active tests)
- **Unit Parity**: 67% (29/43 tests - all critical features covered)

### Skipped Tests (0)

All previously skipped tests have been un-skipped and are now passing:
- ✅ get-metadata by DOI (10.7483/OPENDATA.CMS.A342.9982) - Fixed: Updated to correct DOI format
- ✅ get-metadata output-value (system_details.global_tag) - Fixed: Added system_details field to RecordMetadata struct
- ✅ get-metadata output-value (usage.links) - Fixed: Added usage field to RecordMetadata struct
- ✅ get-metadata output-value (usage.links.url) - Fixed: Improved ExtractNestedField to handle array field extraction

## Test Status

| Package | Tests | Status |
|---------|--------|--------|
| internal/config | 3/3 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/checksum | 2/2 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/downloader | 6/6 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/metadater | 3/3 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/verifier | 3/3 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/validator | 7/7 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/utils | 3/3 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/lister | 3/3 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/printer | 3/3 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/searcher | 15/15 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/version | 1/1 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/xrootddownloader | 6/6 | ✅ PASS |
| cmd/cernopendata-client (integration) | 65/65 | ✅ PASS (100%) |
| **TOTAL** | **120/120** | ✅ **100% active** |

## Dependencies

- github.com/spf13/cobra v1.8.1 - CLI framework
- go-hep.org/x/hep v0.38.1 - XRootD protocol support

## Future Enhancements

### Completed ✅
- [x] Integration tests (network-dependent) - 61 integration tests
- [x] Unit tests for all packages - 29 unit tests
- [x] XRootD support - Native Go implementation via go-hep.org/x/hep/xrootd
- [x] Regex filtering - Multiple patterns supported
- [x] Multiple range filters - Comma-separated ranges (e.g., 1-2,5-7)
- [x] Recursive directory listing - With timeout support
- [x] Progress indicators - "Downloading file X of Y"
- [x] File verification after download - `--verify` flag
- [x] Configurable retry sleep - `--retry-sleep` flag
- [x] Shell completion - Built-in bash and zsh support

### Possible Future Work
- [ ] Support for custom XRootD authentication
- [ ] Parallel downloads with concurrency control
- [ ] Progress bar for downloads (visual progress indicator)
- [ ] Configuration file support
- [ ] Shell completion auto-installation
- [ ] Additional unit tests for edge cases (14 test gap remaining)

## License

This project is licensed under the GPLv3 license, same as the original Python cernopendata-client.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please ensure all tests pass before submitting a pull request.

```bash
go test ./...
```

Commit message:

feat: add installer script for easy binary installation
Add scripts/install.sh to provide one-line installation on Linux and macOS.
The script automatically detects OS and architecture, downloads the latest
release binary, verifies checksums, and configures PATH.

Also update README.md to document the new installation option.

README.md, after:

# CERN Open Data Client - Go Implementation

A command-line tool to download and verify files from CERN Open Data portal, written in Go.

## Overview

This is a Go implementation of the [cernopendata-client](https://github.com/cernopendata/cernopendata-client) Python client. It provides similar functionality with the following differences:

### Key Differences from Python Client

| Feature | Python Client | Go Client | Notes |
|---------|---------------|-----------|-------|
| Language | Python 3.x | Go 1.24+ | |
| Dependencies | click, requests, XRootD, pycurl | spf13/cobra, go-hep.org/x/hep/xrootd | |
| Package Manager | pip | go modules | |
| Binary Distribution | Source installation | Single static binary | No Python runtime required |
| Flag Shorthands | `-r`, `-d`, `-t`, `-s`, etc. (may conflict) | Unique per command | See Flag Reference below |
| Download Engine | pycurl with libcurl | Go http.Client / XRootD | Both HTTP and XRootD supported |
| Resume Support | Yes | Yes | Range headers for HTTP, ReadAt for XRootD |
| Retry Logic | Yes | Yes | Configurable attempts and sleep duration |
| File Verification | Yes | Yes | ADLER32 checksums |
| Regex Filtering | Yes | Yes | Multiple patterns supported |
| Multiple Range Filters | Yes | Yes | Comma-separated ranges (e.g., 1-2,5-7) |
| Recursive Directory Listing | Yes | Yes | With timeout support |
| Shell Completion | Manual | Built-in (bash/zsh) | Auto-generated via Cobra |
| Test Coverage | 59 CLI tests | 61 CLI tests (105%) | Exceeds Python by 2 tests |

### Flag Reference (Go Client)

Each command uses unique flag shorthands to avoid conflicts:

**get-metadata**:
- `-r` `--recid` - Record ID
- `-d` `--doi` - DOI
- `-t` `--title` - Title
- `-v` `--output-value` - Specific field value
- `-f` `--filter` - Filter field=value
- `-m` `--format` - Output format (pretty|json)
- `-s` `--server` - Server URI

**get-file-locations**:
- `-i` `--recid` - Record ID
- `-D` `--doi` - DOI
- `-T` `--title` - Title
- `-p` `--protocol` - Protocol (http|https)
- `-e` `--expand` - Expand file indices
- `-V` `--verbose` - Verbose output
- `-S` `--server` - Server URI

**download-files**:
- `-R` `--recid` - Record ID
- `-d` `--doi` - DOI
- `-t` `--title` - Title
- `-O` `--output-dir` - Output directory (defaults to recid/)
- `-n` `--name-filter` - Glob pattern filter (comma-separated for multiple)
- `-R` `--regexp` - Regex pattern filter (comma-separated for multiple)
- `-g` `--range-filter` - Range filter (e.g., 1-2,5-7)
- `-a` `--start-index` - Start index
- `-z` `--end-index` - End index
- `-y` `--retry` - Retry attempts (default: 3)
- `-e` `--retry-sleep` - Sleep duration between retries in seconds (default: 1)
- `-v` `--verbose` - Verbose output
- `-N` `--dry-run` - Dry run
- `-V` `--verify` - Verify files after download
- `-E` `--download-engine` - Download engine (http|xrootd, default: http)
- `-E` `--expand` - Expand file indices
- `-p` `--progress` - Show progress indicators
- `-s` `--server` - Server URI

**verify-files**:
- `-r` `--recid` - Record ID
- `-d` `--doi` - DOI
- `-t` `--title` - Title
- `-i` `--input-dir` - Input directory (defaults to recid/)
- `-n` `--name-filter` - Glob pattern filter
- `-R` `--regexp` - Regex pattern filter
- `-s` `--server` - Server URI

**list-directory**:
- `-p` `--path` - XRootD path
- `-v` `--verbose` - Verbose output
- `-r` `--recursive` - List directories recursively
- `-t` `--timeout` - Timeout in seconds (default: 300)

**completion**:
- `bash` - Generate bash completion
- `zsh` - Generate zsh completion

**search**:
- `-q` `--query` - Full URL or query string from portal
- `--query-pattern` - Free text search pattern
- `-f` `--query-facet` - Facet filter (key=value, repeatable)
- `-o` `--output-value` - Extract specific metadata field
- `--filter` - Filter array results
- `-m` `--format` - Output format (pretty|json)
- `-s` `--server` - Server URI
- `-p` `--page` - Page number (default: 1)
- `--size` - Page size (default: 10, -1 for all)
- `--sort` - Sort order
- `--list-facets` - List available facets for filtering

## Installation

### Requirements

- Go 1.24 or later
- For XRootD support (optional): `go-hep.org/x/hep/xrootd` (automatically downloaded)

### Option 1: One-line install (Recommended)

The fastest way to install on Linux or macOS:

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/clelange/cernopendata-client-go/main/scripts/install.sh)"
```

This script will:
- Detect your OS and architecture
- Download the latest release binary
- Verify the checksum
- Install to `/usr/local/bin`, `~/bin`, or `~/.local/bin` (based on permissions)
- Automatically configure your PATH if needed

### Option 2: Building from Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/clelange/cernopendata-client-go.git
cd cernopendata-client-go

# Build the binary
go build -o cernopendata-client ./cmd/cernopendata-client

# Optional: Install to system path
mv cernopendata-client /usr/local/bin/
```

### XRootD Support

XRootD downloads are fully supported using the `--download-engine xrootd` flag. The Go XRootD client (`go-hep.org/x/hep/xrootd`) is automatically downloaded when building the binary.

No additional system-level XRootD libraries are required - the implementation uses a pure Go XRootD client.

## Usage

### Version
```bash
./cernopendata-client version
```

### Get Metadata
```bash
# Get full metadata
./cernopendata-client get-metadata --recid 3005

# Get specific field
./cernopendata-client get-metadata --recid 3005 --output-value title

# Get metadata in JSON format
./cernopendata-client get-metadata --recid 3005 --format json

# Filter metadata
./cernopendata-client get-metadata --recid 3005 --filter type=Primary

# By DOI or title
./cernopendata-client get-metadata --doi "10.7483/record/5500"
./cernopendata-client get-metadata --title "CMS Open Data"
```

### Get File Locations
```bash
# List files
./cernopendata-client get-file-locations --recid 5500

# Verbose output (includes size and checksum)
./cernopendata-client get-file-locations --recid 5500 --verbose

# Use HTTPS protocol
./cernopendata-client get-file-locations --recid 5500 --protocol https

# Expand file indices
./cernopendata-client get-file-locations --recid 5500 --expand
```

### Download Files
```bash
# Download all files
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500

# Download to specific directory
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --output-dir ./data

# Filter by name pattern (glob)
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --name-filter "*.root"

# Filter by regex pattern
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --regexp ".*\\.root$"

# Multiple name filters (comma-separated)
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --name-filter "*.root,*.txt"

# Multiple range filters
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --range-filter 1-5,10-15

# Download by range
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --start-index 0 --end-index 10

# Dry run (don't actually download)
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --dry-run

# Configure retry attempts and sleep duration
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --retry 5 --retry-sleep 2

# Verify files after download
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --verify

# Download using XRootD protocol
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --download-engine xrootd

# Expand file indices
./cernopendata-client download-files --recid 5500 --expand
```

### Verify Files
```bash
# Verify downloaded files
./cernopendata-client verify-files --recid 5500 --input-dir ./data

# Verify only specific files by glob pattern
./cernopendata-client verify-files --recid 5500 --input-dir ./data --name-filter "*.root"

# Verify only specific files by regex pattern
./cernopendata-client verify-files --recid 5500 --input-dir ./data --regexp ".*\\.root$"
```

### List Directory (XRootD)
```bash
# List XRootD directory
./cernopendata-client list-directory /eos/opendata/cms

# Verbose output (includes size and modification time)
./cernopendata-client list-directory /eos/opendata/cms --verbose

# List directory recursively
./cernopendata-client list-directory /eos/opendata/cms --recursive

# List directory with custom timeout (seconds)
./cernopendata-client list-directory /eos/opendata/cms --timeout 60

# Full XRootD URLs are also supported
./cernopendata-client list-directory root://eospublic.cern.ch//eos/opendata/cms
```

### Shell Completion
```bash
# Generate bash completion script
./cernopendata-client completion bash > /tmp/cernopendata-client.bash
source /tmp/cernopendata-client.bash

# Generate zsh completion script
./cernopendata-client completion zsh > ~/.zsh/completions/_cernopendata-client

# Add to .zshrc for automatic loading
echo "fpath=(~/.zsh/completions \$fpath)" >> ~/.zshrc
echo "autoload -U compinit && compinit" >> ~/.zshrc
```

### Search Records
```bash
# Basic search
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "Higgs"

# Search with facet filter
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "muon" --query-facet experiment=CMS

# Multiple facets
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "electron" --query-facet experiment=CMS --query-facet type=Dataset

# Copy-paste URL from portal
./cernopendata-client search --query "q=online&f=experiment%3ACMS"

# Extract specific field from results
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "Higgs" --output-value title

# JSON output format
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "Higgs" --output-value title --format json

# Fetch all results (batched)
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "/TT*" --query-facet experiment=CMS --size -1

# Custom page size
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "muon" --size 50

# Advanced search syntax (see https://opendata.cern.ch/docs/cod-search-tips)
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "title.tokens:*muon*"
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "doi:10.7483*"
./cernopendata-client search --query-pattern "heavy ion -electron"

# Discover available facets
./cernopendata-client search --list-facets
```

## Development

### Running Tests
```bash
# Run all tests
go test ./...

# Run tests with coverage
go test ./... -cover

# Run tests for a specific package
go test ./internal/verifier
```

### Building
```bash
# Build for current platform
go build -o bin/cernopendata-client ./cmd/cernopendata-client

# Build for different platforms
GOOS=linux GOARCH=amd64 go build -o bin/cernopendata-client-linux ./cmd/cernopendata-client
GOOS=darwin GOARCH=amd64 go build -o bin/cernopendata-client-macos ./cmd/cernopendata-client
GOOS=windows GOARCH=amd64 go build -o bin/cernopendata-client.exe ./cmd/cernopendata-client
```

### Linting
```bash
# Run gofmt
gofmt -w .

# Run go vet
go vet ./...
```

## Package Structure

```
internal/
├── config/          # Configuration constants
├── searcher/        # Record search and API client
├── metadater/      # Metadata field extraction and formatting
├── checksum/        # ADLER32 checksum calculation
├── downloader/     # HTTP download engine with resume/retry
├── xrootddownloader/ # XRootD download engine with resume/retry
├── verifier/       # File integrity verification
├── lister/         # XRootD directory listing
├── validator/      # Input validation functions
├── utils/          # Utility functions (parsing, etc.)
├── printer/        # Output formatting and display
└── version/        # Version info
```

## Implementation Status

### Completed Commands (100% CLI Feature Parity ✅)

- [x] **version** - Return version info
- [x] **get-metadata** - Get metadata by recid/doi/title
  - Supports multiple record identifiers (recid, DOI, title)
  - Field extraction using dot notation
  - Array filtering with `--filter`
  - Output formats: pretty, json
  - **Complete**: 12/12 tests passing (100%)
- [x] **get-file-locations** - List file URLs
  - Protocol conversion (root:// → http:// or https://)
  - File index expansion with `--expand` flag
  - Verbose mode with file details
  - **Complete**: 13/13 tests passing (100%)
- [x] **download-files** - Download files
  - HTTP downloads with range resume
  - XRootD downloads with ReadAt-based resume support
  - Progress tracking ("Downloading file X of Y")
  - Retry logic with configurable attempts and sleep duration
  - Name filtering with glob patterns (comma-separated)
  - Regex filtering with `--regexp` flag (comma-separated)
  - Multiple range filters (e.g., 1-2,5-7)
  - File index expansion with `--expand` flag
  - Dry run mode
  - Auto-verify after download with `--verify` flag
  - Download engine selection (http|xrootd) with `--download-engine`
  - **Complete**: 23/23 tests passing (100%)
- [x] **verify-files** - Verify downloaded files
  - Size verification
  - ADLER32 checksum verification
  - Missing file detection
  - File count comparison ("Expected X, found Y")
  - Regex filtering with `--regexp` flag
  - Name filtering with glob patterns
  - Custom input directory support
  - **Complete**: 7/7 tests passing (exceeds Python by 2 tests)
- [x] **list-directory** - List XRootD directories
  - Directory listing via XRootD protocol
  - Verbose output with size and timestamps
  - Recursive listing with `--recursive` flag
  - Configurable timeout with `--timeout` flag
  - **Complete**: 6/6 tests passing (100%)
- [x] **search** - Search CERN Open Data records
  - Free text search with `--query-pattern`
  - URL/query string parsing with `--query`
  - Flexible facet filtering with `--query-facet`
  - Field extraction with `--output-value`
  - Batch fetching all results with `--size -1`
  - Shows total hits count
  - **Complete**: 8/8 integration tests passing (100%)
- [x] **completion** - Shell completion scripts
  - Bash completion generation
  - Zsh completion generation
  - Dynamic flag suggestions

### Overall Status
- **CLI Feature Parity**: ✅ 100% complete
- **Test Coverage**: 105% of Python (61/61 tests vs Python 59)
   - **All Active Tests**: ✅ 100% passing (65/65)

## Test Coverage

### CLI Test Coverage vs Python

The Go implementation achieves **105% feature parity** with the Python client:

| Command | Python Tests | Go Tests | Status | Notes |
|---------|-------------|----------|--------|-------|
 | get-metadata | 12 | 12 | ✅ 100% |
| get-file-locations | 13 | 13 | ✅ 100% |
| download-files | 23 | 23 | ✅ 100% |
| verify-files | 5 | 7 | ✅ 140% | Exceeds Python by 2 tests |
| list-directory | 6 | 6 | ✅ 100% |
| **TOTAL CLI** | **59** | **65** | ✅ **110%** | Exceeds Python by 6 tests |

### Unit Test Coverage

| Package | Python Tests | Go Tests | Gap | Status |
|---------|--------------|----------|-----|--------|
| test_downloader | 13 | 6 | 7 | Core features implemented |
| test_verifier | 12 | 3 | 9 | Core features implemented |
| test_validator | 7 | 7 | 0 | ✅ Full parity |
| test_metadater | 7 | 3 | 4 | Core features implemented |
| test_utils | 3 | 3 | 0 | ✅ Full parity |
| test_version | 1 | 1 | 0 | ✅ Full parity |
| xrootddownloader | - | 6 | - | ✅ Full package implemented |
| **TOTAL UNIT** | **43** | **29** | **14** | All critical features covered |

**COMBINED TOTALS:**
- Python: 102 tests (59 CLI + 43 unit)
- Go: 94 tests (65 CLI + 29 unit)
- Gap: 8 tests (14 unit gap reduced to 8 with new metadater logic)

### Combined Totals
- **Python**: 102 tests (59 CLI + 43 unit)
- **Go**: 90 tests (61 CLI + 29 unit)
- **CLI Parity**: 105% (61/59 active tests)
- **Unit Parity**: 67% (29/43 tests - all critical features covered)

### Skipped Tests (0)

All previously skipped tests have been un-skipped and are now passing:
- ✅ get-metadata by DOI (10.7483/OPENDATA.CMS.A342.9982) - Fixed: Updated to correct DOI format
- ✅ get-metadata output-value (system_details.global_tag) - Fixed: Added system_details field to RecordMetadata struct
- ✅ get-metadata output-value (usage.links) - Fixed: Added usage field to RecordMetadata struct
- ✅ get-metadata output-value (usage.links.url) - Fixed: Improved ExtractNestedField to handle array field extraction

## Test Status

| Package | Tests | Status |
|---------|--------|--------|
| internal/config | 3/3 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/checksum | 2/2 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/downloader | 6/6 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/metadater | 3/3 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/verifier | 3/3 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/validator | 7/7 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/utils | 3/3 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/lister | 3/3 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/printer | 3/3 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/searcher | 15/15 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/version | 1/1 | ✅ PASS |
| internal/xrootddownloader | 6/6 | ✅ PASS |
| cmd/cernopendata-client (integration) | 65/65 | ✅ PASS (100%) |
| **TOTAL** | **120/120** | ✅ **100% active** |

## Dependencies

- github.com/spf13/cobra v1.8.1 - CLI framework
- go-hep.org/x/hep v0.38.1 - XRootD protocol support

## Future Enhancements

### Completed ✅
- [x] Integration tests (network-dependent) - 61 integration tests
- [x] Unit tests for all packages - 29 unit tests
- [x] XRootD support - Native Go implementation via go-hep.org/x/hep/xrootd
- [x] Regex filtering - Multiple patterns supported
- [x] Multiple range filters - Comma-separated ranges (e.g., 1-2,5-7)
- [x] Recursive directory listing - With timeout support
- [x] Progress indicators - "Downloading file X of Y"
- [x] File verification after download - `--verify` flag
- [x] Configurable retry sleep - `--retry-sleep` flag
- [x] Shell completion - Built-in bash and zsh support

### Possible Future Work
- [ ] Support for custom XRootD authentication
- [ ] Parallel downloads with concurrency control
- [ ] Progress bar for downloads (visual progress indicator)
- [ ] Configuration file support
- [ ] Shell completion auto-installation
- [ ] Additional unit tests for edge cases (14 test gap remaining)

## License

This project is licensed under the GPLv3 license, same as the original Python cernopendata-client.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please ensure all tests pass before submitting a pull request.

```bash
go test ./...
```
